From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Baro. This is the Daily.
[Music]
One month after sending the National
Guard into Washington to fight crime
there, President Trump is so pleased
with the results that he's now
discussing how to put federal troops
onto the streets of cities across the
country. from Chicago to New Orleans.
It's a potentially dramatic expansion of
what has already become an unprecedented
military deployment on domestic soil.
Today, my colleague Jessica Chong speaks
with residents of Washington about what
it's really like when the National Guard
comes to town.
[Music]
It's Monday, September 8th.
I'm announcing a historic action to
rescue our nation's capital from crime,
bloodshed, bedum, and squalor. and
worse.
Our capital city has been overtaken by
violent gangs and bloodthirsty
criminals, roving mobs of wild youth,
drugged out maniacs and homeless people.
And we're not going to let it happen
anymore. We're not going to take it.
[Music]
This is Liberation Day in DC and we're
going to take our capital back. We're
taking it back.
A day after President Donald Trump
announced he was deploying National
Guard troops into Washington DC, the
first Humvees started pulling in. They
lined up between the African-Amean
History Museum and the Holocaust Museum
along the National Mall. About 800
troops eventually came and they weren't
alone. President Trump also called on
the DEA, Homeland Security, and the FBI.
My message to residents is this.
We know that access to our democracy is
tenuous. DC Mayor Muriel Bowser complied
with all of this, saying there wasn't
much he could do, which makes sense. The
city is a federal district where the
president controls the National Guard.
And while this action today is
unsettlingly and unprecedented, I can't
say that given some of the rhetoric of
the past that we're totally surprised.
Violent crime in Washington is actually
falling dramatically.
>> Some people found all this strange.
Crime in DC has actually dropped to a
30-year low.
>> Let's look at some of this data. In
2023, DC had its most murderers in more
than two decades, 274, but it then
plunged to 187 murders last year, and
it's been falling again so far this
year.
>> So, there is no crime emergency. So,
it's hard to say exactly what the
purpose is. Do you think it's really
about crime?
>> This is not about crime. This is about
control.
>> So, people were resistant.
>> This is not about public safety. This is
about power.
>> A Washington Post poll found that eight
out of 10 residents were against the
federal takeover of law enforcement.
>> Who city?
>> Our city.
>> Who city? To Americans who don't live in
DC, you think of the landmarks, the
White House, the monument, the capital.
But to locals, they think of their city
in terms of four quadrants: northeast,
northwest, southwest, and lastly,
southeast, where crime is the highest.
So, we wanted to talk to people living
there to know what they thought about
this, how life has changed since the
feds came to town. And they told me the
streets were quieter, which is quite a
change compared to what's normally like,
especially in one of the most dangerous
neighborhoods in Southeast,
Congress Heights.
>> When you walk into Congress Park, the
tension is high every day, all day. You
can feel the tension.
>> Shootings all the time. I hear gunshots
all day long.
>> There are young guys killing each other.
>> Child got killed. She got shot riding a
scooter. It's terrible.
>> We talked to two residents who work in
neighborhood safety.
>> I'll drive to the doctor's office and
it's a shame that when you get in your
car, you can't sit there like you used
to because somebody will car jack you.
So, you just get in your car, lock the
doors, and pull off.
>> It's a loving community. It's just
trauma fil. So, in split second, it
could go from loving to violent, you
know what I mean? In a heartbeat. and
just um taking our lives away from us.
It's almost like we're in prison.
>> Sandre Seagars was one of the people we
talked to. She grew up in DC and lives
in Congress Heights.
>> Grew up in zip code 200024, which is 6
southwest.
>> Sandre is 74 years old. She lives in a
small brick house with manicured rose
bushes and hydrangeas.
>> Okay, my block. We keep the grass cut.
>> She's a community activist. Seven years
ago, she founded a local group called
Crave. Concerned residents against
violence.
>> They lobby the city to spend more money
on safety in her ward.
>> When she hears that crime is at a low
point in the city, even in her
neighborhood, it doesn't feel that way
to her. How do you react to people who
say actually crime is down and that
people did try to stop the crime and it
was successful?
>> I would say they're fools cuz they don't
live where I live. almost any every
other night I can look down the street
and see.
>> She says the crime problem in Congress
Heights goes back decades. Her own
brother was shot and killed in the 70s.
But she says back then crime was
targeted toward people who were involved
in it. And for the most part, bystanders
were left alone.
>> And as time went on, things changed. It
was more crime. The store shut down.
>> But now, especially since the pandemic,
she says it feels like the violence is
more random.
>> The criminals getting younger and
younger. And for Sandra, that means more
innocent people and even businesses are
caught up in it.
>> First, it was um chicken place.
>> She points to a nearby storefront that
can't seem to stay open.
>> Subway. At one point, it was maybe a
Mexican cuisine. One of the businesses
moved so quickly, the wires are still
hanging out the walls. It's like they
didn't take time to push the wires in
the wall, they just got out.
>> She says after the murder of George
Floyd, the police were too lenient on
crime.
>> Jack picked up. She was also frustrated
with the DC law that prevented kids from
being charged with adult crimes. She was
so fed up that she actually wrote a
letter to the mayor and city council
asking for the National Guard to be sent
in.
>> And she wasn't alone. The ward's council
member Trayon White did too.
>> But the response was no.
>> The city council couldn't stop it. The
police couldn't stop it. The mayor
couldn't stop it.
>> So Sandra, too afraid to go outside,
hasn't been to a grocery store in 2
years.
I'm announcing a historic action to
rescue our nation's capital from crime,
bloodshed, bedum.
>> She was listening to the local radio
station one late afternoon when she
heard the president describe the city as
one beset by crime and lawlessness.
>> But you want to have safety in the
streets. You want to be able to leave
your apartment or your house.
>> It resonated with her.
>> I did not vote for Donald Trump. I did
not. And I don't agree with a lot of
things he's doing,
but when he decided to bring in the
National Guard and the and the federal
agencies, I was happy.
[Music]
The first days it was announced that
same night that I didn't hear gunshots,
no shootings, and no stabbing.
>> I saw one car come by and one person
walking, and that was it. People calm
down.
She has yet to see federal agents in her
neighborhood, but she says that her
neighbors have. One of them sent her a
video from his porch surveillance
camera. It shows a trail of 12 unmarked
cars going down an alleyway. And she
said that many of her neighbors feel the
same as her.
>> They afford cuz we realize that no one
else is trying to stop the criminals and
we all suffer. So with him, he's serious
about it and he's not going to play with
them, which is good.
>> As for the people in DC who don't agree
with her, who want them out, Sandre says
they're protesting the wrong thing.
>> And where were all these protesters?
Where were they when these children,
babies, and toddlers were getting
murdered? Where were they then? They
didn't protest anything. But now they're
protesting. Here's somebody trying to
make it safer for us. They protesting
them. Illusional.
>> Sandre says she still doesn't venture
too far from home, but she now feels
like she doesn't have to worry as much.
>> I don't be watching my back like I used
to. I just go out. I be pulling the
weeds from my flowers. I I feel safely.
I do.
[Music]
No, it what they're doing is putting a
temporary fix on a bigger issue.
>> Not everyone in Congress Heights feels
this way.
>> I believe it's a show.
>> Three blocks over, Levon Williams, a DC
native, works in a nearby neighborhood
complex as a violence interrupter for a
local nonprofit. His target area is
Congress Park.
>> Say two neighborhoods are beef from
getting into and shooting at each other.
I go to one neighborhood first, speak to
who I'm, you know, the lead is in that
neighborhood. Then I go to the other
neighborhood, do the same thing. Bring
the two neighborhoods together and I
mediate the conflict. Uh, I've been
trained in CBT, cognitive behavior
therapy. I've been trained in
>> Levon is trained in this line of work,
>> mental health and behavior training.
>> But he also says that he can do this
because he has established credibility
within the neighborhood. had my runins
with the system.
>> On the streets, he's known as Big Sykes,
like psycho, a nickname he was given
from his days as a troubled kid. He
dealt drugs, ran with the wrong crowd,
and ended up in juvie and then again in
prison for a homicide that was
ultimately overturned.
And now he uses his reputation on the
streets to try to prevent crime. He says
that since the feds came to town,
prevention seems to be taking a backseat
to arrests. and it has left Levonne
feeling obsolete.
>> One of the things that I was tasked with
doing was just trying to show them who
we are, what we do in the community. And
you know, to my surprise, we've been
ignored or discredited. You know,
>> a few days after the feds arrived, Levon
got a call from a mom in Congress Park
saying that the DEA had her son in
handcuffs.
>> So, when I got around there, say, "How
you doing, sir? My name is Levon Win.
you know, I'm a a violent interrupted
community. You had one of my
participants. You know, I was just
wondering what, you know, what is he
being held for and they ignored me, you
know.
>> He said the agents had smelled marijuana
in the air. They searched the kid for
drugs and any sign of narcotics but
didn't find any. Eventually, they let
him go. Is your understanding that with
MPD in charge, it wouldn't have happened
like this?
>> Right. Because MPD understand DC policy
and procedures, the officer understands
what he's trying to say. He knows how to
deal with community members, right? You
know, whether it's his friends, older
people, whoever, right? What happens now
is federal officers, they only
understand federal codes and federal
laws. So, it's been a lot of
misunderstandings in the communities.
My colleagues at the Times have found
that a thousand arrests were made in the
first two weeks since the federal
takeover, many for low-level offenses.
So far, they say that the deployment
looks more like a sprawling drag than a
precise crime fighting operation.
And crime has fallen. The deterrence
seems to be working. But to leave on,
this all feels excessive and the
long-term effect damaging when you have
agents policing people they don't know.
See, these are things that the US
marshals and police officers don't do.
They don't hold groups with people that
they feel are criminals, right? They
don't take them to do community
building. They don't do outreach. They
don't do healing circles with young guys
that are full of trauma that are now
trying to kill each other. They are
more.
>> He says, however, the deterrence is
working, it's not going to work for
long. He thinks many of these guys are
just waiting for the feds to leave. And
in the meantime, their presence is just
driving crime underground.
>> These guys are still going to find a way
to make their money. They're going to
find some building or somewhere to go
into and still do everything that they
planned on doing out on the streets.
>> Mhm.
>> It's just on the inside now.
Is this what you're hearing from people
that they are actually just doing this
inside away from the gays of National
Guard troops?
>> Yeah,
there are men in this city that have
three, four children, right? They're the
bread winner of the home. And yeah,
they're out here trying to find
employment, but until they do, they have
to figure out a way to feed their
children. So now because of the presence
of these officers, these guys unable to
sell the drugs to feed their children.
Now they're picking up the gun to find
somebody to rob. You see? So you just
went from a basic drug dealer that was
standing on the corner selling drugs to
someone that if the person makes the
wrong moves now you just created a
murderer. So did you fix the problem? He
also says that the feds aren't focused
on the more serious crimes they say
they're here to solve. He points to
something that happened on Martin Luther
King Jr. Avenue on the first day of
school
>> 4 days ago after the National Guard was
deployed in DC. There was a shooting.
A 15-year-old little boy got shot in his
stomach.
While we were there responding to that
shooting, we we knew that they were on
their way. We just knew because this is
a shooting of a child. This is why they
say they're here. You know, this is the
job that they're here to do. Right
later, we got another notification that
two more young men were shot.
Right around the corner from this shoot
within an hour,
these people are coming outside to see
what's going on. mothers and fathers
that's sitting out there hoping and
praying that this is not one of their
children laying on the ground.
Like one of these agencies could have
just been curious, right? As to what's
going on, right? Not one agency outside
of NPD came to be curious and the whole
community was out to see it. Here it is.
Right. your opportunity to show the
community why you're here and you don't
come.
[Music]
>> I mean, could it be possible that
because MPD showed up that the other
agencies didn't feel like they had to?
>> Well, if that's the case, then why don't
you let MPD police the rest of your
street? Mhm.
>> You're here being the big brother MPD.
If you feel as though that you don't
need to come because MPD has it under
control, why are you here?
But they are downtown catching Uber
drivers at lights asking them do they
have their paperwork. Like you have the
time to do this, right?
You have the time to stereotype and
harass people that are just trying to
make an honest living.
But when it comes to actual violence,
you're nowhere to be found.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Days into the National Guard deployment,
in some of the places where they were
most visible, they were often kind of
milling around.
They were walking the halls of Union
Station in the northeast of DC, smiling
with tourists and doing selfies.
>> We're out here supporting the National
Park Service and trying to keep federal
areas clean. They were seen picking up
trash, even doing some landscaping.
>> Put down mulch beds around the tidal
basin as well as flower placements in
the city.
>> A kind of beautifification project.
[Music]
>> And yet,
>> hundreds of National Guard troops that
are flowing into the nation's capital.
That's
>> two weeks after the initial deployment,
more troops had arrived.
>> Governors in six, West Virginia,
Mississippi, Ohio
>> sent from seven states. These Republican
governors answered Trump's request for
more support.
Scoop trucks were seen clearing the
personal belongings of homeless people.
Beds, tables, and appliances at
encampments in the city's northwest
quadrant.
>> Stand back.
>> Do you have any idea?
>> I will stand back with you.
>> Checkpoints started popping up all over
the city, including in the city's
northwest quadrant, where there's a
higher concentration of Latino
residents. Food delivery times were
getting slower. Mopedit drivers were
getting stopped and detained.
You
>> all right, dude?
>> ICE eventually joined the police
patrols. And people started sharing
images and videos of residents getting
stopped on the streets, sometimes on
foot, sometimes at traffic stops while
driving in their cars.
>> He was just driving. You're missing a
brown man.
We talked to several people living in
these neighborhoods along with producer
Carlos Prito,
>> gathering small snapshots of a changed
city.
Many of the people we spoke to wanted to
remain anonymous out of fear for their
own safety, including a woman who was a
cook at a restaurant. She was preparing
chicken when she looked out a window and
saw officers set up a checkpoint right
outside.
One of her co-workers had already been
arrested in the week before. Her boss
locked the doors. She and her colleagues
continued working in the back kitchen in
fear.
We heard from other people who were
changing their routines like going to
the grocery store. families who would
send one person out to the store instead
of going together.
[Music]
Parents and kids were navigating the new
school year. Car pooling so their kids
didn't have to take the bus or the metro
where a lot of troops had been
stationed.
Undocumented moms and dads who were
handing off their kids to other parents
to take them the rest of the way to
school.
Some families who take different routes
altogether.
>> We have taken a different route, not the
main streets. You talk to a ninth
grader, an American citizen whose
Salvadoran roots make him scared.
>> I've never felt this unsafe ever.
>> So, he's changing things about himself.
>> I haven't talked Spanish out loud
whenever I'm in the street.
>> Like how he speaks and where he goes.
>> Me, I like to go play soccer.
>> He no longer goes to the soccer field
where he plays goalkeeper.
>> Play with other people.
>> But he's not going to lose his hair.
>> My curly hair like not cutting my hair
too short. At least if I have to let go
of one part of me, I guess I want to
keep one part true to myself. Um, I want
to just be me.
I wouldn't want to be related to a mice,
but I feel like mice how they're always
hiding. They going around silently,
quickly. Yeah.
My head has been on a swivel 24/7.
[Music]
If you're in DC, don't come down New
York Avenue to get on the ballet cuz
they have a big ass checkpoint.
>> Hey man, they got a police checkpoint on
a street.
>> 14th Street is crawling with ice.
>> Some people have developed warning
systems and street
>> alerting people to what streets to avoid
on neighborhood forums and social media.
>> So on New York Avenue, ice is there.
>> Please be careful. Well, watch what you
doing out here, everybody.
>> But sometimes there is no warning.
>> It was 6:00 in the morning, and my
brother, my mom, and I, we all wake up
to screaming.
>> Christopher is 18 years old. He grew up
in Mount Pleasant in Northwest DC. On
the morning of August 21st, while it was
still dark, he heard his dad yelling
outside their apartment building.
>> And we look out the window and then we
see three SUVs and people that were like
trying to grab my dad out of his work
truck.
>> As soon as they see that, his mom rushes
down five flights of stairs to the
scene.
>> I see my mom crying and I'm like, "What
happened? What happened?" And she
immediately like yells at me. She was
like, "They took your dad. They took
your dad." I'm like, "What?"
She said the men sprang out of unmarked
SUVs dressed in plain clothes, no
uniforms
>> and they grabbed his dad just as he was
about to get into his work truck.
>> And she heard like the big oomph. What
I'm guessing is that they knocked the
wind out of him because apparently there
was like four people on top of him and
then just threw him in one of the SUVs
and they drove off.
And then I rushed to his truck because
his truck is like in the middle of the
street. It's turned on. His father works
in construction just outside the city.
He's a scaffolder. Christopher opens the
truck door to try to look for clues as
to what happened.
>> It was still running and I look inside.
It's empty.
>> His dad's uniform and some bottles of
water were there along with his phone.
The keys were left dangling in the
ignition.
>> What could have happened?
>> So Christopher parked the car.
>> I was kind of like panicking a little
bit. I could definitely hear my heart
beating. I start thinking like, okay,
who could these people possibly be?
Because they had nothing. They had no
vest. Their vehicles were unmarked.
Nothing. I thought he was being
kidnapped.
>> About a half hour later, MPD arrives. A
neighbor who had heard the screams had
called 911.
>> And then the police officer came up. He
was like, "Yeah, I think I have an idea
what happened because immigration
enforcement is going around doing their
patrols." They were usually going around
in the mornings, like early mornings. M
>> cuz a bunch of people from at least from
my community they wake up early to go to
their jobs. So I think that that's who
took your dad.
>> Christopher explained to the police that
his dad had temporary protected status.
He had been living here for the past 20
years after arriving from El Salvador.
>> So if it had been ICE, there had to be
some kind of mistake.
>> They told me that they couldn't do
anything because they're a separate
agency that the police department
couldn't really do much about it. They
just said that if you have any like
questions like visit the immigration
enforcement website to put in his A
number in case he has a case already on
his file.
>> An A number is an alien number. Anyone
who's a non-citizen is assigned one by
DHS.
>> Then he said, "Sorry, I couldn't help."
And then he just left.
[Music]
>> In all likelihood, it seemed to
Christopher his dad was taken by ICE.
But even the police couldn't say for
sure.
>> So you still didn't know where he was?
>> No.
[Music]
>> Then I get a call from a random number
from my dad's phone.
See?
>> And I hear my dad's voice. He's like
He's like, "Son,
>> I'm like I'm like, "Dad, where are you?
What what happened?"
and ask her,
>> I don't know that guy. I don't know the
police eyes.
>> As he's riding in the back of the car,
Christopher's dad was also trying to
figure out who had taken him.
>> And I cry and I say, you know, help me,
help me because they don't have no bad
number or they say it's police.
Maybe these people going to kill me or
something like that because I don't know
that they they just tell me, you know,
you you're illegal.
you being arrested because you're
illegal. And I say, I'm not legal. I got
paper. They don't listen. They don't
listen to me.
>> It's only then that he starts to
understand. And that's what he tells
Christopher.
>> He was like, everything's okay. They're
just detaining me. And as soon as I
heard the word detainment, I just
thought to myself like, "Oh my goodness,
I just detained him."
>> And be quiet because you never think
they're going to happen. you
maybe later my family be the same way
like be that day in that moment.
>> Whatever was happening to you, you
worried they were going to come back for
your family.
>> Yeah. Because you know this they look
Spanish too like me, you know.
[Music]
>> When Christopher's dad Jose arrives at
the Icefield office in Chantelli,
Virginia, they take his wallet where his
papers are. I say I'm legal. I'm good. I
got paper. They say no.
>> But he says they don't listen. He's
processed into a holding room with what
he described as 65 other people just
like him. All say they've been swept up
from DC. Some with papers, some without.
He told me there were so many people on
the floor, no one could lie down fully
to sleep. So people just stood
>> like an animal, you know, because you
can't sleep. We've talked to a lawyer
and other families whose loved ones have
been detained.
>> They paint a similar picture to the one
Christopher's dad did. Crowded, some
were given a foil blanket and a single
burrito for the day. Do you talk to
anyone inside?
>> Yes, like normal people, you know. They
go to work like me.
>> They were on their way to work.
>> Yes, like me.
>> Christopher's dad was there for hours.
>> Like,
>> he began to worry that this was a start
of a wrongful deportation.
At the first chance he could, he called
his son.
>> My dad's phone it rings. It's from a
detention center. When I pick up, I hear
my dad.
>> What I do is call my son, you know, and
say where where I am.
>> And he's like, "Miho, son." I'm like,
"Hey, dad, where you at?"
>> I been right now in Chantil. I tell my
son looking for lawyer.
>> And he was just telling me, "Please find
a lawyer quick because they might move
him. want to make sure they're not
reporting me to the Salvador.
>> And then once he hung up, we were like,
"Okay, we got to go find people."
My cousin and I, we were driving
throughout the entire DC area trying to
find lawyers.
So, the first stop, the second stop, I
think it was around northeast,
northwest, southwest, like between the
border of Southwest and Northwest.
We asked for the lawyer. They were like,
"I don't know if we can because we're
booked up." Okay. Yeah, we're booked up.
We're doing it as fast as we can. We're
looking everywhere. We can't really help
you. Your schedule's filled up. We're
opening doors left and right to see
who's available because everyone's
filled up that she was in surgery at the
time. They gave us like a list of
recommended lawyers and we called them.
All the lawyers around the area are like
same like, "Hey, we're booked up. We
can't." It's a bunch of people who are
being detained by ICE
>> until we find this one lawyer.
>> And this is after how many lawyers
you've hit up?
>> She's the eighth one. And then she was
like, "Yeah, we could set up a meeting
like around next week."
>> The next morning, the lawyer called to
say that there was a cancellation. So,
he immediately took the open spot.
>> We were going through my dad's papers.
20 minutes after the meeting started, I
get a call from DHS. It like the name
was called DHS ICE.
>> He got news that his dad had been moved
elsewhere in Virginia to Richmond. When
they taking me to a Rismo, the first
thing I see the one the big guy
supervisor
and the supervisor ask where's
Christopher daddy and I say I am.
You say, "I don't understand why you be
arrested. They don't supposed to take
you because you got paper. You're good."
And he say, "I'm sorry. Very sorry for
that."
When they tell me that
I cry because
you think never going to see people like
him talking nice and say you good.
You're in legal here. You said sorry.
I'm sorry.
[Music]
You know, I feel good that that moment
the guy the supervisor say, "Hey man, no
cry, man. You everything going to be
okay."
He said, "You ask somebody to pick up
you?" I said, "Yeah, my son."
>> And then we started rushing out to go
into the car to go pick him up. I just
hear my mom crying. She's like, "Thank
the Lord. Thank God that it happened."
>> And my son cried, too. You know, my
wife, everybody cried that moment. And I
cried, too.
[Music]
When we asked the Department of Homeland
Security about what Christopher and his
dad told us, they refuted their account.
They said ICE agents clearly identify
themselves as law enforcement, including
by wearing the proper identifying
clothing. They also said that their
agents are trained to ask a series of
questions to determine a person's status
and if arrests needed to use the minimum
possible force.
And lastly, they denied the conditions
in Chantilli, saying that detainees have
access to phones, legal representation,
and three meals a day. Their goal, they
said, is to support, quote, the
reestablishment of law and order and
public safety so Americans can feel safe
in our nation's capital.
Even though Christopher got his dad
back, things feel different now.
His mom stopped going to work. His dad
sends Christopher out for errands. And
he tells his son to have his passport on
him at all times cuz they're not ruling
out that this could all happen again. I
mean, I'm not sure if it's even in the
system that he was even detained because
we looked again and there were still
zero cases with his A number.
>> Very worried that it could happen again.
>> When I go to work, go to a house, I look
around like you scared everybody. You
know what I mean? I scared for
everything.
>> Yeah. You're scared every day. people
looking for you.
[Music]
Sometime when I go to work, I feel the
guy is behind me. But not bad. But I
feel something like that. Sometime when
I go to work, I feel I feel the same. I
feel that day
all the time that is in my head.
Mhm.
That's still right there in my head.
[Music]
>> The future of federal troops and agents
in DC remain uncertain.
Over the past week, the city's leaders
sent conflicting signals. Mayor Bowser
issued an order requiring local police
to continue working with most federal
agencies, excluding ICE, indefinitely.
But a few days later, the city's
attorney general sued the Trump
administration over the deployment of
the National Guard, calling it an
illegal military occupation.
Over the weekend, Trump signaled that
the next target for a strategy would be
Chicago. In a social media post on
Saturday, he published a photoshopped
image of the Chicago skyline filled with
military helicopters and billowing
flames. Invoking the new name he's given
to the Department of Defense, Trump
wrote, quote, Chicago about to find out
why it's called the Department of War.
>> Hey, Chicago, stand your ground.
>> They will never break us down. They will
never bring us down.
>> That prompted thousands of residents in
Chicago to take to the city's streets a
few hours later to protest Trump's
threat to do to Chicago what they've
already seen him do to Washington DC.
[Music]
We'll be right back. Here's
what else you need to know. Today, on
Sunday, the US and South Korea reached a
deal to release hundreds of Korean
citizens who were detained in one of the
largest immigration raids of Trump's
second term on a Hyundai motor plant in
Georgia. The surprise raid resulted in
the detention of around 300 South Korean
citizens who US officials allege had
overstayed their visas or had entered
the country through a visa program that
had barred them from working. The raid
has shocked South Korea, a close US ally
and trading partner, as well as Hyundai,
which has promised to expand its
manufacturing in the US. and it
demonstrated just how wide ranging
Trump's immigration crackdown has now
become.
[Music]
Today's episode was reported and
produced by Jessica Chung with help from
Carlos Prito and Mary Wilson. It was
edited by Lindseay Garrison, Lexi Dial,
and Michael Benois. Fact checked by
Charma Venadasuben
with help from Susan Lee and was
engineered by Alyssa Moxley.
[Music]
That's it for the daily. I'm Michael
Borrow.
See you tomorrow.
[Music]